Connect the font strategies
to their definitions.
So we have font-display block,
swap, fallback, optional, and auto.
And then temporarily renders an invisible
font until the custom font has been
downloaded.
Use a fallback font while
the custom font is downloading.
And switch to the custom
font when available.
Only use the custom font if it's available
and otherwise just use a fallback font.
Allows the browser to determine
the most appropriate behavior for
font loading, or
use a custom font if it's available, and
use a fallback font if the custom
font is not available [LAUGH].
So first we have font-display block which
temporarily renders an invisible font
until the custom font has been downloaded.
Then we have swap which uses
the custom font if it's available or
use a fallback font if the custom
font is not available.
We have fallback to use a fallback font
while the custom font is still loading and
switch to the custom
font when it's available.
We have optional to really only use
a custom font if it's available within
a short amount of time, otherwise just
keep on using that fallback font.
And auto is kind of just either of
the above, whatever the browser feels like
to determine the most appropriate
behavior for the font loading.
So to kind of visualize block, so
first it just renders that invisible font.
And if the custom font isn't available at
the point which is usually around three
seconds, it will fall
back to a system font.
And then anytime as the fallback or
only whenever the custom font loader has
loaded will it swap to that custom font.
But that swapping period is just infinite,
so
it'll just render the fallback font
until the custom font is available.
Now, with the invisible period you
will get that flash of invisible text,
that F-O-I-T that you can sometimes or
that, I don't know,
abbreviation you might see sometimes.
>> FOIT.
>> FOIT, yeah, FOIT, [LAUGH] one of those.
So yeah, that's with block.
Next we have swap which doesn't
render the invisible font at all.
So in this case,
you don't have that invisible text but
you have the unstyled text with this FOIT
stuff that we're just talking about.
So whenever the font is available,
then swap to the custom font.
Next, we have fallback which only
has a very short invisible period.
And then it just uses or
it renders the fallback font if
it's not available at that moment.
And if the custom one still hasn't loaded
after I believe it's three seconds,
then it will just keep on
using the fallback font.
There will be no swapping.
So it kind of says, all right, it's fine,
I'll render fallback font for now.
But at this point you
really need to be loaded or
otherwise I'm not even
gonna swap you anymore.
To kind of make sure that
the user experience is not or
that the page doesn't jerk around too
much if a custom font is loaded later.
But if it is loaded,
then it'll use the custom font.
That was a weird thing.
And then we have optional which it
also renders that invisible font for
a very short amount of time.
And even after that short amount of time,
if the font hasn't loaded, then it's like,
all right, I won't even try.
There'll be no swapping.
It might still download the web
font in the background so
maybe the next that page that uses
it will still use the custom font.
But on the current page of use optional,
it'll just keep on using the fallback
font if it's not instantly available.
Yeah, and then there's no auto cuz
the browser is just kind of checking
which font method is best to
load with the current bandwidth,
network connections, stuff like that.
>> Question, have you ever had to or
which process would be the best
way to handle fall jank, kind of?
>> It depends, for example, optional is
pretty good if the content that you're
rendering is just super important for
the user to read.
And you don't wanna create a negative
experience by cause suddenly swapping it,
this shouldn't really be for a title.
>> System to the custom.
>> Yeah, so normally I use swap cuz there
you don't have the invisible fonts,
you have the unstyled
font which isn't great.
But you have custom fallback fonts so
you can also set which could be a font and
you also have the adjust line height.
You have glyph stuff that you can
also add to your font face to really,
really get your fallback font
super close to your web font so
that you don't have that layout shift.
Cuz sometimes what happens is that
a fallback font is way bigger or
smaller than a custom font, and
then it suddenly renders on two lines
instead of one and that's just horrible.
You get a bad CLS.
It's super bad.
For example, next and also others
have next fonts which automatically
creates a fallback font based on
the web font that you're gonna use.
So it uses with the glyphs and everything.
I don't know too much about type
phases and stuff like that.
But yeah,
it tries to closely match the web font so
that your fallback font is
still instantly available.
It's still just a system font but the
glyphs and everything kind of precisely
match the web font that you're gonna,
which is pretty cool, I think.
But yeah, just make sure that the fallback
font isn't like Times New Roman when your
custom font is some sans serif stuff.
Yeah, but they all have their use cases.
It just depends on the type of content
that you're rendering, I guess.